In the last lecture we finished doing the logging forum.
But we can't test it yet.
Of course if you are following me pretty quickly and your session is still active.
After we have registered.
Then when you will go to the logging page you should be also redirected back to this home page us.
You are currently signed in.
At least I am now.
Let's see how we can display some links or some content to the user depending if they are authenticated
or not.
And we'll do that inside our layout.
So let's close all these files and go to the layout.
Blade peach P so you can see that we already are displaying something depending or session for example
like this status messages when something happens and here on the top are our links for example to blog
posts and at home and contact pages so we'll be modifying it here first maybe let's change this are
the blog posts to just out now.
There is another directive in Lavell called guest so this allows us to display something for guests
and it also has an else statement so we can display something for authenticated users.
And you have to close it with and guest so let's see if that works.
So far.
Guest will display guest and for everyone else Hello.
User so save the changes and let's refresh the page.
So depending on if your authenticated session is still active you should see something.
I am seeing Hello user because I have registered and I am still logged in.
So now that we know how we can conditionally display something for the users we can display some additional
links for them.
So first when the user is not authenticated what we would like to show them is probably the link to
register and logging.
So let's copy one of those links
OK so first through it would be register
and the second one would be logging.
So this is what we are showing the users that are not out indicated.
Also there is a way to verify in Lavell that certain route exists.
So for cases that for example you do not allow everyone to create an account in your system.
This might be useful for some systems that are like B2B so you are the only one who can create accounts
they cannot register themselves.
You can use the if directive to check that.
So let's see how we can do that.
So there is this If directive and we can use that route has to verify if the register route exists.
So if it does display our registration link.
So there is no else.
So we only display it when we actually have that route.
So this is the way you would do that.
Now for the LS We would like to display a link to logout so let's copy this
and specify it us logout and the route for logging out is log out.
You can also check that using the peach bee artisan route least.
But now seems this route is accepting only the post method not the get method.
We will have to use forum methods.
We will now since the logout link is now since the logo.
The route is only working with the post method so we can't just use our direct link.
We will have to add a forum.
So let's see how we can do that for this case and all the other cases too.
So we'll create a forum with the idea log logout form will specify an action which would be route log
out so the same as in the link and the method would be post
so let's close the forum and continue on the next line.
And now we'll add some style to this forum because we do not want to actually display it.
We only want the post request to be made for this forum.
Now it since it's a forum.
We need this C a directive to protect us from the cross site request forgery.
Now what we will do is we will actually modify this encore to have an on click event so we'll write
a little bit of JavaScript.
So the first thing we'll have to do is to call event prevent default and what it is doing it is preventing
this element default behavior.
So default behavior would be when you click on it it will just direct you to this link using the get
method.
And we do not want that.
So we have to call the prevent default first and only then we can use document get element by I.D. We'll
find logout form and will submit this form and that is everything we have to do so we have this form
and it's not being displayed.
But when you will click on this link will prevent a default behavior and then send this forum that way
we can make up both the request to the logout root OK save the changes and let's go back to the application
and see what we see here.
So we have our home contact blog posts art and a logo at the bottom.
So let's click it now.
Now what you see here is the 419 error.
You actually shouldn't see that error if you made everything correctly by but I actually made a mistake
I forgot to close the forum tag.
So this CSO ref token wasn't actually sent and this is what happens when you send no CSO ref token with
a form or it is invalid.
So if I go back refresh and try to log out again you can see that now on the right we have the register
and logging links and I log out successfully.
So just so you know there is this very FICA serif token which is enabled for all of your roots and it
lives inside the middleware folder inside HDP.
So you can configure it so you can define some exceptions for which pages or which your eyes you do
not want this CSR CSR red tokens validation to work.
So this is actually important as an alliance called middleware.
But the actual class is defined inside here so you can out click it and go inside it to see how that
works.
So there is this handle method and it does couple of checks.
But the final one is tokens much so if you click it you can see that it is trying to get the token from
request which means either getting the input field underscore token or the request header called ex
CSA ref token.
In my case when I forgot to close this form the underscore token field wasn't included with the form.
That's why the tokens didn't match because it tried to fetch it and it was actually no that's why it
costs an error and this token so much methods return false.
So in case you are seeing there 419 error and you think you shouldn't be.
This would be the place to check it.
So you can even modify this file and for example do the DDA to see if the token is actually sent.
So if file if I will remove this again and send it again with which won't include the underscore token
field.
Now here I should see that the token is no.
So I would know where I made a mistake.
So do not be afraid to sometimes modify those classes inside the vendor.
I do not mean modify them permanent permanently.
This you shouldn't do.
But if you try to find an error and you have no idea where to look for it then you can might sometimes
modify them just to see where the error might be.
Well also sometimes another case might be that there is something wrong with your sessions like Lavell
cannot write to the folder where your sessions are files are kept.
Which would by default be the folder inside.
Let me find that storage framework sessions.
So here are the default session if you use that sessions as files stored.
So make sure that Marable has the right permissions for this folder or the Apache server or however
you are using it has the permissions to right to this folder.
But generally let's go back to our layout so let's fix it up again and now we should be able to log
in so I've registered previously with this account.
And now when I log in.
I am redirected back to their home page which we also have configured and now I see the logout page.
So in the next lecture it might be a good idea to modify who can access those buttons because now anyone
can edit or delete blog posts so we should prevent users that are at least not authenticated so they
can't do that.
And in the future we will only allow the users that actually created those blog posts to edit and delete
them.